# Backtracking algorithm to determine the best newspaper page coverage

## Description
Given a text file containing the dimensions of a newspaper page and a set of articles with their origin coordinates, height, and width, our goal is to determine the combination of articles that covers the maximum area of the page possible. The algorithms employed for this task are a recursive algorithm which systematically explores all different combinations of articles to find the optimal arrangement, and an iterative algorithm designed by following a Dynamic Programming pattern.

## Table of Contents
1. [Directory Description](#directory-description)
2. [Installation](#installation)
3. [Install Dependencies](#install-dependencies)
4. [Usage](#usage)
5. [Running Tests](#running-tests)

## Directory Description
This project is organized with the following structure:

- **busca**: Shell script to run our backtracking algorithm.

- **ejecutar.sh**: streamlines the process of running tests for the newspaper page coverage tool. By executing this script, all tests located in the test/ directory will be automatically executed. This facilitates quick and efficient testing of the functionality and correctness of the tool.

- **src/**: A directory containing all python scripts needed in our backtracking algorithm.

  - **article.py**: Houses a class to deal with the articles that must be placed in the paper.

  - **iterative.py**: Contains the implementation of our Dynamic Programming solution.

  - **recursive.py**: Contains the implementation of our recursive solution.

  - **search.py**: The main script for interacting with our solutions.

  - **solution.py**: Houses a class to deal with the solutions generated by our solution.

  - **variables.py**: Houses a class to deal with the different variables involved in the problem.

- **test/**: A directory containing all sample test files and scripts for validating the functionality of our solution.

  - **test.py**: A script for running various tests on the project.

  - **test/in/**: A directory containing all input text files.
    - **test0.txt**
    - **test1.txt**
    - **test2.txt**

  - **test/out/**: A directory in which our algorithm stores the solutions to each test. This directory contains two subdirectories:
    - **/iterative**: Directory to store the results obtained by applying our iterative solution
    - **/recursive**: Directory to store the results obtained by applying our recursive solution
  
- **svg/**: Upon running the newspaper page coverage tool, SVG files will be generated and stored in this directory. Each SVG file corresponds to a visual representation of the newspaper page with all articles included.
  

These files and directories collectively form the core components of the Newspaper Page Coverage project. The `test` directory contains sample text files that can be used for testing our algorithm.

## Installation
This project requires Python 3.9 or higher. To check your Python version, run:
```bash
python --version
```

## Install Dependencies
In order to install the necessary dependencies to run this project, run:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage
to find the optimal arrangement of articles using the iterative algorithm, run the following command:
```bash
./busca -i input.txt output.txt
```

to find the optimal arrangement of articles using the recursive algorithm, run the following command:
```bash
./busca -r input.txt output.txt
```

## Running Tests
As mentioned before, this project includes automated tests to ensure the correctness of the implementation. The test execution is streamlined through a shell script named `ejecutar.sh`.


### Prerequisites
Before running the tests, ensure that you have the necessary permissions to execute the `ejectuar.sh` script. You can grant execution permission using the following command:
```bash
chmod u+x ejectuar.sh
```